SPEAKER: Duty is sacrifice.
It eclipses all things,
even blood.
In the making of season one,
we knew half that season
is a prologue
and half of it
is the first act of this war.
To have season one land
the way it did,
with a rabid audience,
fans of George and his books
the way I am.
We were excited to get into it
because this is the juicy part
of the drama.
♪ (SOMBER MUSIC PLAYS) ♪
SPEAKER:
The North owes a great duty
to the Seven Kingdoms,
one older than any oath.
Winterfell is the one place,
the one corner of this world
where news of Luke's death
has not yet reached,
and it is this hearkening back
to a simpler time.
I wanted to go to a place
where we could experience that,
if only briefly,
and the North just felt
completely the right way to go.
Ryan, when we did speak,
it really, really helped me out
because we would have
conversations
about how important
these negotiations are
for Team Black
and the difference it makes
in the war.
War is coming to the whole
of the realm, My Lord.
We cannot wage it without
the support of the North.
HARRY COLLETT: Well,
it was all about history.
There were pledges
that were made back in the day,
and Jace is sent to remind
Cregan Stark of those pledges.
If your greybeards can fight,
the Queen will have them.
They will fight hard,
like Northerners.
ALAN TAYLOR: Rhaenyra heard
the news that Luke has died
on a mission
that she sent him on,
so there's guilt involved.
And she's a mother
who's lost a son
and has to go through
the sort of necessary
grieving process
that Daemon, her husband,
can't really appreciate
or understand.
She goes and tries to make peace
with Luke's demise,
but she cannot settle in it
because it is
unsettled business,
until part of Arrax
washes ashore.
Going in search of evidence is
quite fundamentally important
to her.
I guess one of the sort of
maddest things about death
is that it seems
sort of impossible,
especially because really
the overriding feeling often is
you just sit with the absence.
And so, anything that has, like,
a tangibility about it
I think is vitally important.
Her son's cloak,
the wing of his dragon,
I think it's devastating,
but I think it galvanizes
a vengeful feeling,
one that maybe she hasn't
paid so much mind to previously.
(SYRAX ROARS)
EVE BEST:
I think that Rhaenys is probably
one of the few people
that Daemon knows
he can't mess with,
although I suspect
probably wants to.
We're going to King's Landing.
-To what end?
-Killing Vhagar.
When those two meet,
it's kind of like
a panther meets
a kind of electric eel.
Really dangerous combination.
He's essentially ready
to go to war and get payback.
RYAN CONDAL: It was nice
to throw those characters
into conflict with one another.
I think you can tell
from even her demeanor
the way Rhaenys
thinks of Daemon.
Daemon believes that he's,
of course,
completely in the right
and has the power
to order Rhaenys around.
Fly with me.
It is a command.
Would that you were the king.
AEGON II TARGARYEN:
Where is Jaehaerys?
What do you need of him?
I'm taking him
to the Small Council.
He'll be king one day.
He must begin his instruction.
What if he does not want
to be king?
(WHISPERS) Where is he?
One of the things I loved
about Game of Thrones
was the character humor.
And, you know,
we can spend a lot of time
being dour in this world,
and it's so important
to have humor.
And when I first saw
what Tom Glynn-Carney was doing
with Aegon,
I thought, "He's finding humor
where I didn't know it existed."
And it's painful,
a guy who's way in
over his head,
who really wants to do well
but just can't make
a right move...
(LAUGHS)
...no matter what he does.
SPEAKER 2:
Aegon the Magnanimous.
Hail King Aegon!
The Magnanimous?
I think Aegon is
the kind of father
that encourages bad behavior
because he finds it funny.
He loves his kids.
I have no doubt about that.
He loves his kids dearly.
But he's not one
to discipline them.
If anything, he's, you know,
having competitions
with his children
to see who can be
the most rebellious.
And Aegon often wins.
He took my piece.
Is the heir to the throne
bothering you, Tyland?
We see him come into
a Small Council meeting
with Jaehaerys,
and, you know,
he's spurring him on.
He's wanting him to be
more of a-- more of a rebel,
more of a nuisance,
just like his old man.
-I think he wants a ride.
-ALICENT HIGHTOWER: Your Grace.
-TYLAND LANNISTER: A ride?
-A pony ride.
Wouldn't that be fun,
Jaehaerys?
Should the Master of Coin
be your royal steed?
(ALL CHUCKLING)
It's meant to be
a moment of fun, a bit.
And yes, like Aegon brings
his four-year-old to work.
But I think on a perhaps
nuanced character level,
this is the thing that Viserys
never did for Aegon.
And Aegon did not study
at the feet of his father.
His father had his male heir
and then essentially said,
"Well, that box is ticked."
He was ill.
I think he enjoyed having a son,
but didn't put in the work
the way he did with Rhaenyra
when he was a younger man.
And I think Aegon resents that
and feels that
part of the reason
that he's not seen
as being suited
for the crown
or the throne
is because he didn't get
that training from his father,
so now he's going to
make up for that tenfold
with Jaehaerys.
ALAN: Alicent's been
in a marriage that was loving,
but not exactly romantic
or physical for quite some time.
Cole has got a lot of issues.
One thing I love
about the character
is that he is a knight
in shining armor
and sort of classically handsome
and probably the most
messed up person in the story
in many ways.
You know, clinging to notions
of purity and duty
and just flagrantly
breaking them left and right.
So, there's a lot
of complex things
driving the moves
closer and closer
between Alicent and Cole.
And it takes a leap forward.
But nothing is simple with them,
so for every leap forward,
there's a push back.
We cannot... again.
ALAN: There's a lot
of wonderful tension there.
I mean, I think there's love,
but there's a lot of mess too.
(LAUGHS)
-Your Grace.
-Good day.
FABIEN FRANKEL:
I think, ultimately,
they're two very lost people
in a pretty unforgiving world.
And I think there's always been,
you know,
since the very first episode,
Alicent, you know,
had her eye on Criston Cole.
And then she was a young lady,
and now she's
the Queen of the Seven Kingdoms.
OLIVIA COOKE: It's paramount
that she keeps it a secret
because not only
would her respect
completely disintegrate,
but her stay in the castle.
And Aegon is so unpredictable.
Who knows what he would do
if he found out
that his mother was having sex
with his
Commander of the Kingsguard?
I mean, not only is it
an embarrassment,
it would bring deep, deep shame.
I want Aemond Targaryen.
Rhaenyra has literally one line
in the first episode,
and the one line she says,
Daemon takes
as pulling the trigger.
In our first episode,
we see him unleash something
that is sort of famous in
the lore of House of the Dragon,
a nasty event that he triggers.
When Rhaenyra declares
that she wants Aemond,
I think it's an admission
of a possibly shameful desire,
and I think that admission
is made directly to Daemon.
I think it's also an admission
of their similarity.
She sort of discloses
another way in which
they actually share a darkness.
"I want Aemond Targaryen"
becomes the battle cry
that then resonates
across the entire season
because that is
the next domino to fall
in this back and forth
that sets in motion
a horrible attack
and counterattack
that continues,
and the atrocities grow worse
and worse as they go.
ALAN: In our story,
it's Mysaria,
who has got her tentacles into
every part of King's Landing,
who is able to provide
the connections
for Daemon to exact revenge.
I think it really is a big deal
for the fans
because it keeps
getting referred to.
And I don't know
the characters' actual names.
They're forever in lore
as Blood and Cheese.
-(LAUGHING)
-Who the fuck is she?
She's the Queen, she is.
"A son for a son," he said.
The boldest thing that
I think we did there
was decide to give the last
ten minutes of the episode
over to these two characters
that we have never met before
and rely on them to take us
through the end of the story
and to see, hopefully,
as they go deeper and deeper
into the Red Keep
and as we're spending more
and more screen time on them
that something horrible
is going to happen in there,
and knowing that you're watching
Game of Thrones
and you don't know what is going
to come for you from where.
And seeing that play out
hopefully is the fun
and the horror for the audience
that's yet to come.
♪ (MUSIC SWELLS) ♪
(MUFFLED YELP)
♪ (MUSIC CONCLUDES) ♪